Hamas has downplayed optimism by the US
president that a ceasefire deal with
Israel is imminent a senior member of
the group's political Wing bosam Naim
told Al jazer Hamas is still waiting for
an official proposal the US state
department however remains optimistic
that an agreement can be reached our
goal is to achieve a deal to uh reach a
humanitarian pause and the release of
hostages as soon as possible certainly
we'd welcome getting one by this weekend
um what I can say about the overall
progress is that we made significant
progress towards an agreement last week
when uh we had uh officials from the
United States government engaging in the
region we continue to pursue further
progress this week uh American officials
across the government continue to be
engaged on this question um we are
trying to push this deal over the Finish
Line we do think it's
possible ven Mar's joining us now from
occupied East Jerusalem so the US state
department being fairly upbeat about
some sort of uh deal being reached Hamas
however downplaying it what what is
Hamas response to all of
this Rob I just got off the phone with
Dr Nim again in Istanbul telling me that
there is still no formal proposal on the
table around a deal so what he's saying
is going on at the moment and still has
been going on for several days is that
mediators from the US from Qatar from
Egypt are still talking to the Israeli
side to come up with formal details that
will be presented to Hamas for them to
then respond to in a formal manner their
red lines remain the same he says those
are an end to fighting a withdrawal of
Israeli troops to outside of Gaza a
massive increase in Aid support for
rebuilding and of course what's so key
here is that the details around what
that Aid will look like the level of
support has not yet been clarified
another element of any deal will be a
swap of prisoners we've got at least 40
captives inside Gaza from the Israeli
side that would be released under any
deal potentially those are women
children older men and those with
medical conditions and the details
around who on the Palestinian side
prisoners inside Israeli detention who
would be released that is still
seemingly an open question some of the
most high-profile people held in Israeli
detention are those that Hamas would
like to see released and of course that
will be politically complicated for
Netanyahu at the very center of this
though Rob is the idea that there will
be an overall ENT to the war something
Hamas would like to see or just a
cessation a temporary ceasefire from the
Israeli perspective they would like to
have the option to continue the military
operation at the end of this prisoner
swap period and move into Rafa where
Hamas maintains military operations to
some extent villm thank you very much
indeed villm marks talking to us from
occupied East Jerusalem